---
title: How to make a Todo App? (part 3 -- flask)
published: false
---

In this post we'll create an API for our app, in Flask, so that our data isn't stored on the client side and is instead sent to the server each time. We'll use the same implementation of the frontend that we had made last time, we'll just change some of the JavaScript code.

I will assume you understand basic python code. Even if you don't understand everything like the `@decorator` syntax, the code should be easy enough to follow along.

## Installing python and flask

The easiest and best way, in my opinion, to get python is through the Anaconda (or Miniconda) distribution. On linux you sometimes have python installed beforehand but usually it is the system python and it can mess things up when installing new packages. Anaconda does a really good job at seperating the python you're using from the one required by the system and reduces a lot of headaches. So assuming you've got Anaconda (or miniconda) with python 3 installed, you can simply do 

```bash
$ pip install flask
```

and you'll get flask installed for you in about a minute. Let's not mess with virtual envioronments just yet.

(If you're on the default system python you'll have to do either `pip install -u flask` for user level install or `sudo pip install flask` for the system level install. Also you'll have to mess with different versions of python and pip, that is why I said Anaconda is the best idea.)

## A basic application in flask

Once you have Flask installed, you can run this code to test if it works:

```py
from flask import *
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def home():
    return "Hello World"

app.run()
```

Simply save this as `main.py` and run this with `python main.py`. You should see the server start up and report that it is running at url `http://127.0.0.1:5000` or something. That means the server is listening for connections on `localhost (127.0.0.1)` on `port 5000`. If you open that link in a web browser, you will see just `"Hello World"` written there. Localhost basically refers to the same machine, and a port number is a number between `0-65535` that the application can run on. By default it chooses `5000` arbitrarily, but we can set it later.

What just happened here?

1. You created a Flask App object called `app`. What is `__name__` is irrelevant for now, just consider that line to be boilerplate code. What you need to know is just that the `app` object will be configured according to us and when `app.run` is called, it will start up the default server to listen on some web address for requests and respond to them accordingly.

2. We have added one _route_ to the app object, the route at url `"/"`. That means it will be accessed as the home page of our app at `http://127.0.0.1:5000/` (see the last `/`?) When a web browser connects to ther server at `127.0.0.1:5000` and asks to display the URL `/`, the web server will understand this request and call the function `home` associated with this route, which simply returns `"Hello World"` to the browser.

We added this route by using a _decorator_, 

3. The browser interprets the incoming text as HTML and displays it on the screen. Although we can use flask as a proper web server and have it return HTML to the browser and make proper websites with it, we're not covering that here. Here we'll just use Flask for the API and do the coding for the frontend seperately. That way you could even have your frontend made in a different technology, say React and have it connect to the Flask API.